

-0.13 & 0.25


Read this:
	http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkbayes/thinkbayes.pdf



Moving average is a non-parametric method



LOESS smoothning is a good non-parametric metric method to capture trend. is it ?



correlation is a measure of linear association not non-linear



we make the series stationary because we want to capture the autocorrelation which is only a function of lag and not time 
	if the series is not stationary then the ACF will also be a function of time (t). Its easier to model stationary series as opposed to non stationary. We can still build a model on non-stationary but it won't be a good one. 



How does ARIMA compares with linear regression?
	we can do but it won't be equipped with time-series tools to identify proper lags ACF metrics
How does invertability ensures uniqueness? Does uniqueness mean convergent and unique?
	not clear
what if I have seasonal and trend components which ARIMA or SARIMA?
	2 level of differencing if both are there (first seasonal then trend)


AR & MA processes are interchangeable







difference operator is just like differentiation. First-order differencing addresses linear trends, and employs the transformation zi = yi – yi-1. Second-order differencing addresses quadratic trends and employs a first-order difference of a first-order difference, namely zi = (yi – yi-1) – (yi-1 – yi-2), which is equivalent to zi = yi – 2yi-1+ yi-2.

Seasonal differencing is a different kind of differencing: zi = (yi – yi-4) with a seasonal effect of period 4






ARMA (p,q) can be converted to some AR(inf) because MA(q) should be covnerted to AR(inf)





The equation shown in the lec6 (slide 40) for AR(2) model fitted on the differenced series looks off....
	the differenced series should be fitted with an AR2 instead of fitting a slope and AR2




There is something called heirachical time series




A function that tests if an altair chart has the UBC theme applied to it adhering to the university's visual identity.





Geo data

Ys are assumed to be conditionally independent given the values of the process Zs. What does this mean?


is h distance or is it like the number of locations in between... distance should make more sense

How is intrinsic stationarity different from weak stationarity because both put same restrictions


https://zoom.us/j/669543370




























